What is contrasting color painting?  
Contrast color painting is through the continuous contrast of warm and cold color changes to achieve the harmony and unity of the tone. At the beginning of the painting, the flexible use of the brush and the painting knife will cover the canvas with strong colors, and then use the palette knife to quickly scrape down the colors, leaving a thin layer of color, and then use the scraped paint to adjust the color of the picture into gray, or by covering the contrasting colors to make it elegant. This can make vulgar colors into subtle and harmonious colors. 
Artists use contrasting colors to paint when the underlying layer is not dry. In this painting, the role of the painting knife is very great, it can make the plain color produce rich and changeable effect, the painting knife can also remove the undesirable color, can avoid the use of turpentine scrubbing color damage. In addition to scraping, painting knife can also be used to wipe, kneading and other methods to make the contrasting colors coordinated and unified. 
Custom oil portrait, Original Personalized portrait painting, History portrait, Hand Painted Oil Painting portrait From Photos
https://painting-portrait.com  
Contrasting color painting allows the artist's extraordinary ability and rapid painting skills to be expressed. This is sometimes achieved by continuous contrast of larger tonal variations. For example, an artist first uses a bright color (such as blue) on a painting, and then tries to find a contrast with that bright blue. After contrast and experiment on the picture to adjust, from the monotonous contrast gradually developed into a very harmonious painting whole, the effect will be surprisingly subtle. 
The representative painter of contrasting colors is Caravaggio, who influenced Velazquez and Rembrandt to master this technique. 
Since Impressionism, modern oil painting has made more use of cold and warm color contrast method to create the color effect of flashing natural brilliance. Since then, the contrast between light and shade emphasized in traditional paintings began to be replaced by the contrast between cold and warm. 
Complementary color as the strongest contrast between warm and cold color, more can play a strong impact of color. In Cezanne's still life paintings, three pairs of complementary colors are often present at the same time, with red, green and orange and blue providing a clear contrast, while violet and yellow play an auxiliary role. There are strong and light colors, bright and dark, thus achieving a highly inclusive mix of tones. 
Van Gogh said with deep appreciation: "The combination of two complementary colors, their mutual fusion and contrast, the mysterious tremor between the close colors, the expression of the love between two lovers.
Custom oil portrait, Original Personalized portrait painting, History portrait, Hand Painted Oil Painting portrait From Photos
https://painting-portrait.com  
https://www.oilpaintingproducer.com
